Synchronized Events
======================

What are synchronized events?
-----------------------------

In some circumstances, simulated modules for a particular Simulation
Unit are dependent on other Simulation Units. That is, there is an
interdependency across the Simulation Units. In these situations, it is
necessary for there to be a process that synchronizes across the related
Simulation Units. 

For example, where it is known that 1,000 of 10,000
pixels were affected by a fire event, to determine if a pixel should
apply a fire module, it is necessary to know how many other pixels have
been selected to have the fire module applied.

How are synchronized events handled in FLINT?
---------------------------------------------

Included in the FLINT is a synchronized server. This server uses a set
of user-inputted criteria to identify particular Simulation Units for
which a module will, or could, be applied. The module can be applied to
all Simulation Units that meet the criteria. The module can be
attributed to a sub-set of the identified Simulation Units using
pre-determined criteria (e.g., randomly, weighted, or based on a unit
characteristic). Once identified, the module is run and the outputs
computed. Notably, this is carried out during the simulation. For
example, where a disturbance event has occurred, and only aspatial
tabular data is available, the simulation process is run to identify
Simulation Units that meet the criteria of the stated disturbance event.

This criterion may be characteristics such as forest age, species, or
region. Once identified, FLINT will run a disturbance module on the
simulations that meet the criteria until the effect of the disturbance
event has been modeled (e.g., the same area or carbon loss as the
disturbance event). Other systems, such as Australiaâ€™s Full Carbon
Accounting Model, cannot apply tabulated spatial data during a
simulation. Rather, the data must be processed separately from the model
before applying it.
