Frequently Asked Questions
##########################

This section answers frequently asked questions (FAQs) about moja global and the associated projects.

Moja Global
-----------

Why is moja global using open source?
=====================================

Moja global is open source for quality and sustainability.

The quality of the software is the most important reason for companies
to use open source software when it is available. The quality of the
open-source software is mainly a result of the pooling of resources from
various organizations, governments, and companies who would otherwise be
competing and the diversity of the contributors. Open source code
management systems have overtaken private systems as open-source code
has far `fewer bugs`_ at the time the code is accepted.

Open source is a guarantee for sustainability. Once a tool is released
as open-source, it will remain open source. The tool has been built by
various people who keep ownership over their contributions. They only
give others the right to use their contribution under the same license
(in moja global's case, mostly MPL2.0). It allows everybody to use the
contribution from everybody else. Undoing this decision is not possible
as the license is irrevocable. Practically, it would also be impossible
because everyone's contributions would have to be dealt with separately.

Further information is provided on the White Paper - `Governments, open
source, and moja global`_.

.. _fewer bugs: https://www.zdnet.com/article/coverity-finds-open-source-software-quality-better-than-proprietary-code/
.. _Governments, open source, and moja global: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Q2aVTzWchXQwupbEN7s37xANkPZvrLdfaFyYOT_8Diw/edit?usp=sharing

Are moja global tools free?
===========================

Anyone can use moja global’s tools for free.

Moja global tools are open source and therefore free to use.

The only obligation users have is to share all improvements they make to
the software with all other users in line with the `Licence`_.

Moja global does not charge any fees nor seeks payments from users.
However, for sustainability reasons, contributions - in kind or cash -
are necessary. These are always voluntary.

You can find more information about contributions in the document `Who
Pays?`_

(The misperception is that Moja Global is not accessible or has hidden
costs).

.. _Licence: https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/MPL/2.0/
.. _Who Pays?: https://docs.google.com/document/d/15KY1CkCxRzB9ZBp68OLc2eWYuC5W-rqCKnTLaIG4tbg/edit?usp=sharing

Is moja global controlled by one country?
=========================================

Moja global is a genuinely global, neutral platform owned by its users.

Users own and control moja global. You can find more \ `info on
governance here`_.

All users have the right to take a seat on the board. The strategy board
decides on strategy and budget. The board supervises two co-directors.
The chair of the technical steering committee is a Canadian national.

When FLINT started, only two countries in the world had a spatially
explicit system using integrating software to estimate land-sector GHG
fluxes. Those were Canada and Australia. We took on the strong points of
each of these systems in the FLINT design process. As a result, FLINT
has several vital ingredients comparable to the software used in those
two countries.

(Misconception: Moja global is Australian/Canadian dominated)

.. _info on governance here: https://github.com/moja-global/About_moja_global/wiki/moja-global-is-controlled-through-open-governance

How to contract moja global?
============================

Financial support to moja global is possible as grants to the Linux
Foundation.

Direct financial support is possible through a grant to the Linux
Foundation. The money is released once moja global’s board approves the
expenditure.

However, moja global prefers contributions in kind. Donors can
contribute by providing funds directly to contributors, user groups or
countries to enable code development as well as documentation and
science support.

Moja global does not provide implementation support to countries. This
role is provided by some parties in moja global’s ecosystem (companies,
country departments, international organizations, etc.) To remain a
credible facilitator, moja global should not compete with its
collaborators.

More information about contributions can be found in the document `Who
Pays?`_

.. _Who Pays?: https://docs.google.com/document/d/15KY1CkCxRzB9ZBp68OLc2eWYuC5W-rqCKnTLaIG4tbg/edit?usp=sharing

What licence is moja global using?
==================================

Moja global uses mainly MPL-2.0.

Most major global software has been released under the open-source
license MPL2.0. This means that anybody can download, use, change and
redistribute the open-source tools on the condition that you share the
improvements you make with all other users. This way, everybody wins.

The license is soft-copy-left: If you develop a module without using
existing moja global parts, you are under NO obligation to share this
module. If you release it under MPL2.0, that would be great for
others, of course, and very much appreciated, but there is no obligation.

It allows companies to develop specific modules or services using the
software for commercial purposes (e.g. `FLINTpro SaaS`_) They are free
to do so as long as they share the improvements to the open-source
software so everybody can profit from those improvements.

.. _FLINTpro SaaS: https://flintpro.com/

FLINT
-----

What is FLINT?
==============

FLINT is a software platform to estimate emissions and sinks of
greenhouse gases from land use.

FLINT (Full Lands Integration Tool) is moja global's flagship software
the platform mainly used for estimating emissions and sinks from land
use (but in the future also for economics, biodiversity, etc.).

It is a second-generation software that is a giant calculator that can
manage data, keep (Carbon or other) pool values, and shift (Carbon or
other) amounts between pools based on models/modules.

FLINT is building on the first generation tools developed in Canada
(CBM-CFS3) and Australia (FullCAM). Those who designed these
first-generation tools have joint forces to design and build the
second-generation tool FLINT.

FLINT is a platform combined with a range of specific modules for a
particular situation: forest modules, soil modules, litter, wood
products, etc. Developing modules can be done externally, and they can
be connected to the FLINT platform as needed. We chose this design
option to create the flexibility to adapt to local circumstances and to
make the development of modules simpler.

Since every user picks and chooses its particular modules, they end up
with an almost unique configuration. Several countries have given their
national configuration a name: Kenya = SLEEK, Colombia = SEPAC,
Indonesia = INCAS, etc.

What is the difference between moja global and FLINT?
=====================================================

Moja global is an organization; FLINT is a software tool. Moja global
provides rules and infrastructure to help users to collaborate. Its sole
aim is to promote the broadest possible collaboration on and use of its
tools. FLINT (Full Lands Integration Tool) is moja global's open-source software tool.

Can beginners use FLINT?
========================

Anybody can use FLINT.

The brilliant thing about FLINT is that it is a sophisticated system for
entry-level users.

Designing an MRV system for the land sector is among the world's most
complex things. Globally, only a handful of people have achieved that
level of expertise. FLINT is the product of these brains. In essence,
FLINT is a sophisticated system designed so people at the entry-level
can use it. The software and training build additional skills, capacity,
and depth of understanding over time.

Some level of technical understanding is necessary to run the FLINT. But
there is a big difference between the technical understanding needed to
design your national MRV system and the technical understanding needed
to run the FLINT software and understand the calculations. Compare it to
a car: to design a car, one needs sophisticated skills. To maintain the
car, you need practical technical skills. Any layperson with a license
can drive the car.

.. _only use their own resources , use support, or rely on software-as-a-service: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1W8GYRf2pGeI2MjR9eKpaCRSBeKvQlv9BxxGzBBJwxYU/edit?usp=sharing

Can we continue to use our old system when switching to FLINT?
==============================================================

FLINT works with whatever is already in place.

FLINT is the name for the open-source MRV platform offered by moja
global. FLINT is combined with science modules to develop
country-specific configurations. Country-specific implementations make
each national system unique. In Kenya, FLINT is known as SLEEK. In
Canada as Generic Carbon Budget Model (GCBM). In Colombia, it is called
SEPAC., etc.

FLINT based systems build on the work that has already been done and
data that a country has available, including land cover maps, forest
inventories, emissions factors, etc.

(Misconception: FLINT forces users to start from scratch and competes
with existing national systems).

Can one see how FLINT calculates emissions?
===========================================

FLINT is fully transparent.

The brilliant advantage of open source is that the tool is always
available for review. Everybody is invited to review the code to see
what the software is doing.

All documentation about the software is accessible.

In addition, most modules that you can plug into the software are open
source and have their detailed documentation.

The aim is to improve the documentation until even those not well versed
in IPCC rules can go to the tool, read through the documentation, and get
a reasonably good sense of how the software works in a matter of days. Where
documentation is not clear; feedback is used to improve the
documentation further or even better. Those who have questions are encouraged to
suggest improvements to documentation and code.

(Misconception: FLINT is a black box).

FLINT Installation Support
--------------------------

I am trying to setup FLINT from the master branch but am running into errors. What am I doing wrong?
====================================================================================================

FLINT's stable development branch is **develop**. **develop** branch is
the latest updated branch and should be used as a base branch for
development. Therefore, we recommend you to checkout to this branch and
target your pull requests against the **develop** branch. For more
instructions on doing this, please refer to our `Git and GitHub Guide`_
.

.. _Git and GitHub Guide: https://docs.moja.global/en/latest/DevelopmentSetup/git_and_github_guide.html

I use the Mac operating system. Is it possible to install FLINT?
================================================================

Yes Absolutely! You can install FLINT on Mac using `our docker installation <https://docs.moja.global/en/latest/DevelopmentSetup/docker_installation.html>`_ .

What is the difference between FLINT and FLINT.example repositories on moja global GitHub?
==========================================================================================

FLINT is our framework for estimating emissions and sinks from land use
(but in the future also for economics, biodiversity, etc.), where the
user has to provide the config files or data. Whereas FLINT.example
provides the user with some sample example files that the user can run
to get a look and feel of FLINT's output. Hence we recommend you first
install FLINT.example before FLINT.

How to configure Visual Studio for FLINT?
=========================================

To smoothly work with C++ Development on Visual Studio, we recommend you
to add ``Desktop Development with C++`` workload while undergoing
`Visual Studio installation process`_ mentioned in our prerequisites
section.

.. _Visual Studio installation process: https://docs.moja.global/en/latest/prerequisites/visual_studio.html#for-visual-studio-2019

I am trying to setup the Docker installation for FLINT but am running into errors. What am I doing wrong?
=========================================================================================================

In case of the Docker installation for FLINT, it might be possible that
the Docker hardware requirements are not met. Please ensure that at least
4 CPU cores & 4 GB of RAM has been allotted to the Docker machine.

I have tried the above but my errors persist. What should I do?
===============================================================

We recommend you to join our `Slack workspace`_ and post your queries in
the ``#installation-support`` channel. We will try to get back to you as
soon as possible!

.. _Slack workspace: https://mojaglobal.slack.com/

GCBM
----

What is GCBM?
=============

GCBM is runs CBM science models on the FLINT platform.

GCBM (Generic Carbon Budget Model) is a combination of the FLINT
platform with the science modules developed by the Canadian Forest
Service.

These are the same science modules used in the first generation tool
(CBM-CFS3). Since the science and processes behind both tools are very
similar, it is relatively easy to transition from CBM-CFS3 to GCBM.

The CBM-CFS3 is widely used throughout Canada and globally and its use
is supported by the Canadian Forest Service of Natural Resources Canada.

The next generation GCBM is currently used by the CFS with a number of
partner organizations to advance the science of forest carbon estimation
and to support policy analyses such as the assessment of mitigation
options in the forest sector.

FLINTpro
--------

What is FLINTpro?
=================

FLINTpro is a commercial software as a service version using the FLINT
platform.

`FLINTpro`_ is a cloud-based version of the FLINT platform. It has been
developed by the Mullion Group. Using FLINT for commercial purposes is
allowed under the MPL2.0 license. The Mullion Group is sharing all the
improvements to the FLINT platform with the open-source community.

.. _FLINTpro: https://flintpro.com/

FLINT UI
--------

What is FLINT UI?
=================

A FLINT client, written in Vue, to provide a user interface for
configuring simulations using the FLINT.Cloud APIs.

`FLINT UI`_ provides an intuitive way for new to explore some
preconfigured FLINT modules, including the Generic Budget Carbon Model
(GCBM), to better understand how the FLINT system works. Our the client
is written as a Web application and can be used in a local or remote
environment.

This project also provides a base for governments to build their
application on top of the FLINT. Every government possess a different
You can customize FLINT implementation, exclusive modules and
configuration, and hence the tool for every module.

.. _FLINT UI: https://docs.moja.global/projects/flint-ui/en/latest/index.html

FLINT.Reporting
---------------

What is FLINT.Reporting?
========================

Reporting Tool functionality for classifying FLINT output results into
standard reporting formats.

The role of the `Reporting Tool`_ is to provide Business Intelligence
for analyzing and transforming FLINT output databases into helpful
information and outputs. The current implementation of the Reporting
Tool processes the Flux database into simplified 2006 GL Reporting
Tables.

The big picture is that the Reporting Tool takes flux facts and
assigns/aggregates them to a land-use category, a reporting table, and a
UNFCCC reporting variable.

To do this:

-  The Reporting Tool first implements a process that allocates a flux
   to an IPCC Land Use Category which is identified as the **Land Use
   Decision Process.**
-  Secondly, it implements a process to allocate the flux to a 2006 GL
   Reporting Table which is identified as the **Flux Type to Reporting
   Table Process.**
-  Finally, it aggregates the fluxes according to the UNFCCC variable
   which is simply identified as the **Aggregation Process.**

.. _Reporting Tool: https://docs.moja.global/projects/flint-reporting/en/latest/index.html

Taswira
--------

What is Taswira?
=================

An interactive tool for visualizing GCBM output.

`Taswira`_ aims to be an easy-to-use utility to help the users of the
Generic Carbon Budget Model (GCBM). It takes output generated by GCBM
and creates a browser-based UI that allows users to:

-  View previews of the spatial data overlaid on an interactive map.
-  View graphs of ecosystem indicators from the non-spatial output.
-  Visually cycle through the time-series of the spatial output.

.. _Taswira: https://github.com/moja-global/GCBM.Visualisation_Tool
