**Definition of a Pool**

A pool is a reservoir within which something can be stored and released.
For example, a carbon pool is a reservoir from which carbon can be
stored (sequestered and/or maintained) or emitted, such as debris.
Within FLINT, each pool is attributed a value, for example tonnes
carbon, and at each time step the FLINT can move stores from one pool to
another using operations.

**How pools are used in the FLINT**

The FLINT is able to be configured for sub-regional, regional and national
circumstances, while complying with the pool definitions of the IPCC
(aboveground biomass, belowground biomass, deadwood, litter, soil
(mineral and organic). To achieve this, the FLINT calculates stock and
fluxes for sub-pools, which can then be aggregated up to the IPCC pools,
as well as non-IPCC pools such as atmosphere and products. Default
sub-pools will be set in the FLINT using default configurations that
hook the FLINT to default modules (Table 1). This flexible approach will
enable the implementation in the FLINT of pool structures used in
existing national approaches, while also allowing for future
developments of adding new pools (e.g. mosses, bamboo, or explicit
representation of specific pools such as stumps or bark). Development of
vertical soil structures, e.g. for the representation of water balance
or active layers in peatlands or permafrost systems will also be
possible. FLINT will maintain a hierarchy of pools/sub-pools and manage
their interactions, for both Carbon & Non-carbon pools (the main pool
layer). As these interactions (stocks and flows) will vary by species,
it is necessary to track the outputs of attributed to specific species
through the system. To manage this, FLINT will also duplicate the
simulations for each species (both Tree and Crop) used during the
simulation, creating species specific pool/sub-pool layers.
