**What is a module?**

A module is a self-contained set of operations that determine the state
of, or change in, variables across a specified period of time for a
single Simulation Unit in direct response to event notifications from
the FLINT core system (Unit Controller). For example, the empirical
forest growth module includes all the operations required to simulate
biomass accumulation.

**How do modules operate?**

Each module reads (or is provided with – see Unit Controller)
information about the current state variables and the data required to
update the state variables, such as climate data or information about
disturbances to simulate. Each module then performs the required
calculations and returns information about the updates to apply to each
of the state variables and C pools. For state variables such as age or
height it is possible for modules to return the updated value but for
all carbon pools and other fluxes the module returns an array (sparse
matrix) of the proposed operations. This array will include the
information about the source pool, the sink pool, and the amount (Mg
ha-1 per time step) of the flux. Module-specific metadata regarding
units and time step size are also required. This information is all
returned to the Unit Controller.

In terms of the FLINT programming framework, there are internal and
external modules. The internal modules tend to be generic utility
modules, for example, for producing output tables. While external
modules are regionally or nationally specific. By using modules and
separating the generic and specific, FLINT’s framework remains highly
flexible and new modules can be ‘plugged in’ as they are developed.
Standard modules in FLINT

The FLINT includes six standard modules for simulating changes in forest
and crop systems, including changes in soil carbon. These modules each
run for all simulations at a monthly step interval (see Temporal
Distribution), and include: \* Empirical forest growth module \* Hybrid
forest growth module \* WOFOST crop growth module \* Turnover module \*
Decomposition module \* RothC soil carbon module

**Modules for disturbance events**

Disturbance events are events that occur intermittently (rather than for
every time step in a simulation) and affect carbon stocks. Disturbance
events include natural and anthropogenic events, including fire,
harvesting, ploughing, and fertiliser application (Table 2). While
disturbance events are modules within FLINT, they are referred to
separately as they are not run on every simulation as are the
aforementioned modules. FLINT can use tabular or spatial data to account
for disturbance events. As a minimum FLINT needs the date of the
disturbance, and the disturbance type. Where tabular data is used,
information is also needed for the amount (or proportion) affected, the
units the disturbance event is reported in (area, carbon etc.), and any
eligibility criteria (i.e. Simulation Unit characteristics that the
event is allowed to affect). This information can be used to attribute
the disturbance event to Simulation Units using a pre-determined
criteria (e.g. randomly, weighted, or based on a unit characteristic).

The follow is a disturbance events included in FLINT. Carbon pool events
are those that directly affect one or more carbon pool, while non-carbon
pool events indirectly affect one or more non-carbon pool.

**Carbon pool events**

-  Fire
-  Harvest
-  Herbicide
-  Plough
-  Debris mulching
-  Grazing
-  Organic matter additions
-  Planting

**Non-Carbon Events** \* Irrigation \* Fertilizer application \*
Compaction
