**What is a Local Domain?**

Sitting above Simulation Units, is the Local Domain. The Local Domain is
the collective of Simulation Units that are bound for a specific
purpose. This can be, for example, to report on the changes in carbon
stocks for a particular region.

**How are Local Domains used in the FLINT?**

Within FLINT, Local Domains have three main functions. Firstly, they are
used to ‘house’ the variable values for all the simulation units which
they represent. Secondly, through a local domain controller they assign
these values to the simulation units during a simulation. Thirdly, they
receive the outputs simulation units, and up-date the domain
characteristics.

As an example, using the latter scenario. As discussed above (see
Simulation Units), the FLINT applies modules to individual Simulation
Units to determine the stock and fluxes for individual pools. However,
given the scale of these Simulation Units, they are often too high
resolution for reporting purposes and as such need to be aggregated.
Depending on the user’s requirements, the outputs of these processes are
then summed at different spatial scales to provide information that can
be used as part of national and international reporting obligations. As
an example, if the user wishes to determine the carbon stock change over
a specified period for a region where the Simulation Unit is represented
by a pixel (25m x 25m) the FLINT would use pool specific modules to draw
on the current values of each variable associated with each pixel within
the given region. The module would then apply operations to each of
these variables at the pixel level, and associate the outputs with the
pixel. In terms of user output, the FLINT sums the new values for each
pixel by module and produces a database of carbon stocks and fluxes for
each pool over time for the region. For fluxes, the movement and the
pools are both recorded (e.g. X t CO2-e from pool A to pool B).
