**What are synchronised events?**

In some circumstances, modules that are simulated for a particular
Simulation Unit are dependent on other Simulation Units. That is, there
is an interdependency across the Simulation Units. In these situations,
it is necessary for there to be a process that synchronises across the
related Simulation Units. For example, where it is known that 1,000 of
10,000 pixels were affected by a fire event, in order to determine if a
pixel should apply a fire module, it is necessary to know how many other
pixels have been selected to have the fire module applied.

**How are synchronised events handled in FLINT?**

Included in the FLINT is a synchronised server. This server uses a set
of user-inputted criteria to identify particular Simulation Units for
which a module will, or could, be applied. The module can be applied to
all Simulation Units that meet the criteria, or the module can be
attributed to a sub-set of the identified Simulation Units using a
pre-determined criteria (e.g. randomly, weighted, or based on a unit
characteristic). Once identified, the module is run and the outputs
computed. Notably, this is carried out during the simulation. For
example, where a disturbance event has occurred and only aspatial
tabular data is available, the simulation process is run to identify
Simulation Units that meet the criteria of the stated disturbance event.
This criteria may be characteristics such as forest age, species, or
region. Once identified, FLINT will run a disturbance module on the
simulations that meet the criteria up until the effect of the
disturbance event has been modelled (e.g. the same area or carbon loss
as the disturbance event). Other systems, such as Australia’s Full
Carbon Accounting Model, do not have this ability to apply tabulated
spatial data during a simulation. Rather, the data must be processed
separate from the model before it can be applied.
