**What is consistent representation of lands?**

Under the UNFCCC framework, countries are required to aggregate
emissions to particular land categories. These are forest land,
cropland, grassland, wetlands, settlements and other land. Due to the
importance of these reporting categories, it is necessary that land is
consistently represented through time and across different data
sources.. This will ensure that there no, or limited, artificial changes
in land-use, and allow for accurate comparison to different reporting
years.

**How does FLINT ensure consistent representation of lands?**

The first generation tools used simple classification systems based
either on stands that remained forest, or classification that allowed
for a one time conversion to a category (for example, forestland to
cropland or cropland to forestland).

As a second generation tool, FLINT is able to automatically report
changes between land use categories for a variety of spatial, spatially
referenced, aspatial and policy inputs. Input data can be remote sensing
data or tabular data. This approach is akin to Approach 3 within the
IPCC Guidelines (See Volume 4; Chapter 3 - Consistent representation of
lands). Based on these inputs, each Simulation Unit will be tagged as a
specific land classification. Land use categories are set by the
individual user. Each land use class is also assigned to an IPCC land
use category. For example, land that is mapped as wheat, will also be
tagged as Cropland for UNFCCC reporting purposes. This allows for
consistent reporting against IPCC classes without needing to create maps
of IPCC classes.

Aspatial and policy inputs are necessary, as the IPCC land use
categories cannot be mapped directly from remote sensing. This is
because there are policy decisions, such as forest and crop definitions,
that affect the categorisation. Land can, for instance, move between
categories based on time in that category. For example, Forestland
converted to Cropland will need to move to Cropland remaining Cropland
at some point (commonly 20 years, but variable for Tier 3 systems).
These processes can be mapped out using the decision trees in the 2006
IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories. The FLINT is
able to track lands for other policy and reporting needs. For example,
the FLINT is able to apply rules relating to natural disturbance
provisions under the Kyoto Protocol, and is able to address issues of
base years. The FLINT will place other gases, such as methane and
nitrous oxide, into the correct reporting categories for the UNFCCC
reporting. For example, non-CO2 from fire will need to be put in the
biomass burning table, and be separated from non-CO2 from management
fires.
