**Empirical Growth Model**

The empirical growth model is a forest growth module that simulates
growth in carbon stock within a forest and its components through time.
It is based on yield tables that presents the monthly growth increments
for a forest type, as determined by the average field measurements
across forest stands (i.e. empirical data). Yield refers only to
aboveground biomass in [m3/mth, t/mth]. These yield tables reflect the
generalised growing patterns through time, based on the prevailing
environmental conditions and management of the forest types that
underpin the data. Forests are measured to reflect the range of forest
conditions present; as opposed to a ‘normal’ growth model that only
reflects fully stocked forests.

The yield table tables increase the mass of carbon within the forest
through time, and allocation tables are then used to proportion this
growth to individual forest components – such as stem, leaves, fine
roots, and coarse roots. Like growth, the proportional allocations will
change through time as the forest matures. For example, at younger ages
a larger proportion of tree growth will go into leaves than stems. The
increase in carbon stock is associated with tree growth that is drawn
from the atmosphere pool, ensuring mass balance.

As with all models, the empirical growth model can be calibrated to suit
the data that is available, and up-dated through time. However, this is
also one of its limitations, in that it requires up-dating to respond to
changes in climatic conditions; whereas hybrid models do not.

**Hybrid forest growth**

Hybrid models are more complex than empirical growth models, as they use
physiological responses to environmental conditions to derive
relationships that can be used to predict tree growth. These models are
represented as equations, or a series of equations, rather than a table.
Such models are often referred to as 3-PG models (Physiological
Principles in Predicting Growth). To function, these models require
finer detailed data than is typically represented in empirical growth
models. For example, a 3-PG model can require monthly rainfall, number
of frost days, and mean daily water-vapour pressure deficit (see
Landsberg & Waring 1997). The starting mass of carbon within the forest
is also needed.

Under this approach, biomass partitioning is done as a proportion of
aboveground biomass, which varies with age.

An advantage of hybrid models over empirical models, is that they are
better suited for accounting for variation across the landscape with a
more limited dataset. As only one model can be used to model growth over
a variety of site conditions, where these conditions are explanatory
variables in the model. Similarly, these models can be calibrated to
respond to changes in management, by applying growth modifiers. More
information on Hybrid growth models can be found in Brack & Richards
(2002) and Waterworth et al (2007).

Input\|Output ------------------\|------------------------------ 1. Time
step: monthly\|1. Age: Age 2. Region: Province\|2. Pool1: Stemwood 3.
Species\|3. Pool2: Bark 4. Species: rootshoot\|4. Pool3: Leaves 5. Age:
Age\|5. Pool4: Course roots 6. Pool1: Stemwood\|6. Pool5: Fine roots 7.
Pool2: Bark\| 8. Pool3: Leaves\| 9. Pool4: Course roots\| 10. Pool5:
Fine roots\| 11. Rainfall\| 12. Minimum Temperature\| 13. Maximum
temperature\| 14. Vapour Pressure Deficit\| 15. Soil water holding
capacity\|

**WOFOST** Akin to the Hybrid forest growth model, WOFOST (World FOod
STudies) is a mechanistic model that simulates crop growth on the basis
of photosynthesis, respiration, and the prevailing environmental
conditions. WOFOST also allocates biomass to different plant components,
with the proportion varying with crop growth stage. Unlike the hybrid
growth model, WOFOST allows users to adjust the complexity of the model
that is run. WOFOST allows users to model the potential production,
attainable production, and actual production for a given site. WOFOST
runs at daily time steps. More information on WOFOST is available at:
www.wageningenur.nl/en/Expertise-Services/Research-Institutes/alterra/Facilities-Products/Software-and-models/WOFOST.htm

Input\|Input ------------------\|------------------------------ 1. Time:
Daily\|1. Age: Age 2. Crop Type\|2. Pool1: stem 3. Pool1: stem\|3.
Pool2: Leaves 4. Pool2: Leaves\|4. Pool3: Storage organs 5. Pool3:
Storage organs\|5. Pool4: Roots 6. Pool4: Roots\| 7. Maximum
temperature\| 8. Minimum temperature\| 9. Global radiation\|

**RothC** RothC is a model for simulating the turnover of soil carbon in
non-waterlogged soils under different vegetation types. It is based on
the decomposition of organic matter as it relates to mean temperature
and moisture, and proportion of resistant and decomposable organic
material. While there are default decomposition rates in RothC, it is
necessary to calibrate the model to the local conditions (Falloon &
Smith 2002). RothC has a significant benefit over other soil models,
such as CENTURY, as the input data is more readily available and there
is also considerable overlap with the hybrid forest growth and WOFOST
models. For more information on RothC, see
www.rothamsted.ac.uk/sustainable-soils-and-grassland-systems/rothamsted-carbon-model-rothc.

| Input \| Output ------------------ \| ------------------------------
1. Time: Monthly \| 1. Total organic carbon 2. Pool 1: Input of plant
residue \| 2. Microbial biomass carbon 3. Pool 2: Input of farmyard
manure \|
| 4. Pool 3: Total organic carbon \|
| 5. Pool 4: Microbial biomass carbon \|
| 6. Rainfall \|
| 7. Open pan evaporation \|
| 8. Mean air temperature \|
| 9. Clay content of soil \|
| 10. Decomposability of incoming plant material \|
| 11. Soil Cover \|
| 12. Depth of soil layer sampled. \|

**Turnover** Turnover is the movement from a living carbon pool to a
dead carbon pool. This is due to the natural senescence of plant
components, for example a deciduous forest will have near 100 per cent
turnover of leaves across a year – or an annual turnover rate of 0.99.
The turnover rates will vary with vegetation types, and the plant
components. For example, a tree stem may have zero (0) annual turnover,
while the leaves have one (1). [To determine the volume of turnover
through time, a calculation similar to the one below is carried out.
Turnover=1-(1-Turnover rate)^Time

Within the FLINT, the maximum decay rate is set at 0.99 999 999 998, and
the minimum decay rate is 0.000001. These restrictions are in place to
ensure there are no invalid calculations (e.g. dividing by zero).

| **Decomposition** Within the FLINT, decomposition represents
heterotrophic respiration of litter and soil organic matter. The process
of modelling decomposition is akin to turnover in plant material, where
a proportion of biomass in litter and soil organic matter decays through
time. The rates of this will vary with location based on the prevailing
environmental conditions.
| As with turnover rates, within the FLINT, annual decomposition rates
are limited to.....

Reference Brack, C.L., Richards, G. P. (2002) Carbon accounting model
for forests in Australia, Environmental Pollution, pp. 187-194. z
Fallon, P, Smith, P., (2002) Simulating SOC changes in long-term
experiments with RothC and CENTURY: model evaluation for a regional
application. Landsberg, J.J., Waring, R.H., (1997) A generalised model
of forest productivity using simplified concepts of radiation-use
efficiency, carbon balance and partitioning, Forest Ecology and
Management 95, pp. 209-228. Waterworth, R.M., RIchards, G.P., Brack,
C.L., Evans, D.M.W (2007) A generalised hybrid process-empirical model
for predicting plantation forest growth, Forest Ecology and Management
238, pp. 231-243.
