Understanding FLINT
===================

Countries recognise the importance of improving decision making and
supporting land sector policies to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
and increase removals. At the same time, there is heightened attention
globally on transparency in climate action to support the goals of the
Paris Agreement and in supporting transitions to achieve the Sustainable
Development Goals. The Full Lands Integration Tool (FLINT) is an
open-source platform to estimate emissions and removals of greenhouse
gases from the land sector using modules that perform specific analyses
of carbon flows.

An Overview
===================
The FLINT is a second-generation tool aimed to facilitate the
implementation and operation of land sector emissions estimation systems
worldwide. It was developed through cooperation between Kenya, Australia
and Canada and incorporates lessons learned from the development of the
CBM-CFS3 (Canada) and FullCAM (Australia). Some core features are:

- **Full-Mass Balance Framework**: FLINT incorporates a comprehensive full-mass balance framework meticulously designed to meet all the rigorous requirements set by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).

- **Customization and Alignment**: The tool empowers users by offering possibilities for customization to meet specific national policy and reporting requirements, ensuring alignment with diverse regulatory landscapes.

- **Modular Flexibility**: FLINT operates through a modular system that enables the utilization of individual and exchangeable modules, accommodating varied analytical needs.

- **Spatially Explicit Analysis**: FLINT operates in a spatially explicit manner, allowing in-depth analysis of emissions and removals across geographic regions.

- **Fine Resolution Time Series Data**: The tool is equipped to generate fine-resolution time series data, facilitating detailed temporal analysis.

- **Historical Reporting and Future Projections**: FLINT seamlessly handles historical data reporting and projection generation, bolstering informed decision-making.

- **Versatility Across Land Uses**: FLINT's adaptability extends to encompassing emissions and removals for a diverse array of land use scenarios.

- **Framework for Continuous Improvement**: The tool provides an enduring framework for ongoing enhancement and development, ensuring it remains at the forefront of emissions estimation technology.

- **Open-Source Collaboration**: Managed by Moja Global under the Linux Foundation, FLINT operates as open-source software, fostering collaboration and community contributions.

The FLINT provides a framework to progressively develop **MRV-related
systems, data and capacities**. By this means, countries can start with
simple implementations using existing global data sets (Tier 1) and then
gradually move to more complex calculation approaches, using national
and regional information (Tier 2 or 3).

The basic role of the FLINT is to coordinate the interaction of data
(e.g. spatial data, non-spatial data, carbon pools, variables, fluxes)
and modules. It also manages computational outputs. FLINT-compatible
modules are discreet software packages that can be attached to the
FLINT. It is possible to differentiate between calculation modules and
functionality modules. Calculation modules can change the state of
variables and pools for pixels over a sequence of steps. Functionality
modules do not apply changes to variables or pools but affect the
utility of the FLINT by e.g. aggregating data or generating outputs.

A unique configuration of modules attached to the FLINT is referred to
as implementation (described in the picture below). Existing FLINT
implementations are **SLEEK-FLINT, GCBM and FLINTpro**. SLEEK-FLINT uses the
Chapman-Richards function as the basis of one of itâ€™s forest growth
models. GCBM uses growth-and-yield curves that describe the relationship
between stand age and stand volume.

.. figure:: ../../images/flint-implementation.png
   :alt: Representation of a complete FLINT implementation
   :align: center

Contents:

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 1

  MojaFlint/index
  DataPreparation/index
  Science/index

